hi i'm alex from e2 language I'm working
at home but still working with our
eating language students helping them
prepare for their IELTS test and in this
video I'm going to help you too I'm
going to show you today some of the most
common errors that we see when we're
knocking students work here at e2 and
also the most common errors that I used
to see when I was an IELTS in seminar
hopefully this video will show you some
of the mistakes that you might be making
just raise your awareness and help you
to avoid making them on test day let's
get started ion's writing task to
comment six point five errors calling
these six point five errors because
these are the kind of mistakes that can
cause you to drop from eight or seven
down to six point five let's start with
the writing task to topic here's a
typical prompt let's read it
many governments spend a lot of money on
the arts some people think this
investment in art is necessary but
others say the money is better spent on
improving health and education discuss
both these views and give your own
opinion so a pretty typical question for
task two how would you feel if you got
that on test day would you feel
confident that you could write in a
sophisticated way about government
investment in the arts about funding for
the public sector for health for
education that's what you need to do in
this particular topic now we're going to
look at an introduction just an
introduction and this introduction
contains heaps of those six-point-five
errands your job is to try to spot them
I'll give you two minutes for this read
the introduction see how many problems
you can see not just grammar and vocab
and other things as well let's go
you
how did you go how many errors did you
spot there or how many problems
hopefully more than five and in fact
more than ten let's have a look at them
one by one by the way I should mention
that it's not a terrible introduction I
can certainly understand what the writer
wants to say but the error density is
way too high let's look at the first
sentence nowadays where the government's
investing art is hotly debated topic
okay what's our first problem yeah
that's right okay see it no article here
it should be invest in art is a hotly
debated topic a topic a hotly debated
topic first problem another thing is
this expression hotly debated topic this
is a really overused expression or
cliche because I'm gonna state this
stuff and it often doesn't make sense
you can't just stick this into any essay
question and hope that you're going to
score well just forget about that kind
of cliched language okay just at the end
of this sentence another little problem
punctuation there's a full stop here and
then no space after it this is really
common if you're doing IELTS on the
computer probably just a quick typo
error but the examiner will flag this as
a grammar mistake
so make sure after your commas after
your full stops put a space ok next
sentence as many people opine that
spending on art is necessary so next
problem is here this is a weird word it
is really not used in English in this
way we should say many people think many
people feel many people believe forget
about this word it sounds super strange
next problem spelling this is an easy
one but on test day make sure you edit
one see to essence here next sentence
although others disagrees quite a few
problems in there the main one is this
is a fragment this is half a sentence
it's like saying
because I'm Australian . that's just
half a sentence so when you have a
linking word like that a conjunction
like although or like because he needs
two parts of that sentence so this is a
sentence fragment classic error in IELTS
now the reason it's a sentence fragment
is here because of this linking word or
this conjunction is being used wrongly
used wrong use wrongly either way this
word should join with the sentence
before it knots it after a full stop so
this is a faulty linker classic band 6
problem okay and this creates our
sentence fragment although others
disagrees one more problem here can you
see it subject verb agreement others
plural disagrees with an S no these
don't match it should be others disagree
notice mix sentence in this essay I will
examine both of this perspective before
coming to a reasoned conclusion so again
a couple of things going on in this
sentence as an examiner in that final
sentence I'm expecting to see the
writer's opinion have I seen it here not
really let's have a look at what's wrong
here now the first thing is that I can
see this is a memorized chunk of
language in this essay I will examine
both the live before coming to a recent
conclusion I've seen this chunk dozens
and dozens of times and I would not
reward the writer for memorizing this
piece of language that's not what IELTS
is about this should be a demonstration
of what you know of what you can do with
the topic before you it is not a memory
test okay so it's a memorized chunk
however it's not memorized correctly
there are still a few grammar errors
here so one of them is the singular
plural noun problem I will examine both
perspective you should have an S right
both perspectives there's also an issue
with the reference on the for it this
perspective it should actually be
perspectives what else is one final
quite big problem here no opinion so the
writer says I will come to a reasoned
conclusion but me as an examiner I want
to know the conclusion right now I want
to know it in the introduction I want to
know it in the body I want to know it
again in the conclusion why because it's
in the marking criteria let's have a
look at that in more detail I won't go
through every single part of that
introduction as it relates to the
criteria but one thing to keep in mind
is that even though all of those errors
were quite tiny there were little errors
most of them when they are all together
they add up to quite a big problem so
particularly in terms of grammar and
vocab error density affects your score
so you simply cannot have too many
errors in too little space let's zoom in
on the criteria by the way this is the
public and descriptors these are the
public descriptors the examiner uses
something very similar to mark your work
and as you would know if you've seen my
video on writing task two criteria the
examiner gives you four separate scores
for your essay now one of them is the
task response over here and then seven
says clear position throughout remember
I said that introduction didn't give me
a position or an opinion so it couldn't
get seven based on that tiny little
problem and it would be in danger
in fact of scoring three three says does
not express a clear position
so hopefully the writer would tell me in
the conclusion what their opinion was
but that might be too late
in fact that is too late to school down
seven and seven not just clear position
clear position throughout so opinion in
the introduction essential down here
bones six if this uses cohesive devices
effectively but cohesion linking within
and or between sentences may be faulty
or mechanical faulty linking remem
that problem with the word although that
is a band six problem band seven doesn't
mention anything about faulty linkers so
when you're using a linking word make
sure it's correct zip over here to
lexical resource or vocabulary down here
at band five it mentions noticeable
errors noticeable errors in spelling and
or word formation now the intro that we
saw before didn't have heaps of spelling
errors but it had quite a few and
throughout the essay too many spelling
errors too many wrong word choices can
cause you to score band 5 so as the
density of errors gets higher as there
are more and more errors and more and
more noticeable areas the score goes
down so upper band seven there should be
minimal errors then down six quite a few
band five a lot and so on and then on to
grammar grammatical range and accuracy
this is band six here it says make some
errors that rarely reduce communication
notice and seven says a few errors and
eight occasional then nine rare minor
errors so same thing as you drop down
the band scale the error density
increases band five refers to frequent
errors and the errors are more serious
here they can cause difficulties for the
reader difficulty for the reader so the
introduction that we looked at before it
didn't cause me difficulty I could
understand everything in spite of those
errors so in terms of vocab and grammar
that's probably more like a six than a
five but if you're scoring sevens in
task response and coherence and cohesion
but sixes in vocab and grammar even one
six that will be a six point five essay
let's look at the topic again and I want
to show you a better example and I
haven't just corrected both areas are
completely rewritten the introduction
topic again is about government spending
money on the Arts some people think good
some people think no
discuss both give your opinion okay so
here comes a better example in fact this
is a bad 8.5 sample introduction I'll
read it
it is generally accepted that ask
enriches our society and plays a
valuable role in its culture and history
so notice that precise word choice art
enriches a society the subject
Sandberg's agree the collocations are
correct plays a valuable role the
reference word is correct a society its
culture although some support government
investment in galleries artistic
organizations and other art related
matters others feel that this money
should be spent on public services so
although is used correctly here and I've
also demonstrated wide range of vocab
not just although some support
government investment in the arts others
opposed and extended that a bit okay
third sentence have I given the opinion
here in this essay I will consider both
views okay and explain why I agree that
state funding of the Arts should be
redirected
okay so clear opinion there I agree
state funding of the Arts should be
redirected so this is a much better
introduction and you can find the full
essay the rest of that essay in our e to
IELTS topic toolkit number two which is
all about the theme of art you can find
it in the link below like all of our
IELTS topic toolkits topic toolkit - all
about art contains 20 words that you can
learn speaking questions for part 1 2 &
3 all about art topics essay topics and
the sample essay that comes with the
introduction I just showed you
plus extra resources links to readings
and listenings and videos all about the
theme art you can find the rest of our
topic toolkits inside your course
on e to language comm you can sign up
for free or grab one about paid packages
for access to all of our daily life
classes recorded classes feedback and
keep small ET language is a 100% fully
online IELTS test preparation site
stopped with the best isles teachers you
can find in the world come and join us
we can look at your writing for you you
can have a one-on-one tutorial with us
join our group classes heaps heaps more
sign up today I'll see you there bye
[Music]